uh
welcome everyone to this week's ipld
meeting it's
august the 17th 2020 and as every week
we go over the stuff that we've done in
the past week and plan to do the next
week
and then we discuss um
gender items or questions anyone has or
yeah
any open topics so um
this week i started with myself um this
week i don't have anything to report for
the ipld stuff because i haven't do it
done
any ipod related stuff last week
and i'm still busy with filecoin stuff
but this will
hopefully be finished soon so um
yeah soon i will have again paper list
of the report
and next on my list is peter but he also
writes that he doesn't have anything so
next except except except i need to add
that i will not be done this week
so okay yes okay
cool yeah yes so next
is would be michael
if he yeah so i mean i can say it again
i'll i'll write the text in a second
um i'm just making tea so i was off
camera for a second um yeah i haven't
written up my notes yet but
um the main thing was this um
file coin retrieval stuff so we now know
that like
the only way to get any data out of the
file coin network ever is with
retrievals and selectors so we
kind of scrambled to try to figure out
how we might be able to get the
blockchain data out of that
there isn't really a reasonable way with
the current methods so i wrote up
kind of why um and then wrote up two
feature requests that would make it more
doable in the future that i
kind of expect to get prioritized after
the launch
um and there's some other fallout like
uh
i talked with folker today about
accelerating some of our work to do
wassum-based read-only codecs so that we
could have a dag of read-only codex that
could be linked
and that you could safely load off the
network and actually be able to
read data with a lot more codecs than
you ship with
and that's it for that
made some more progress on the ipjs
build tool
um it's now building um i'm working on
the test side of things
um so that we handle um
mainly a thing that rod brought up over
the weekend
and so uh that should be working really
soon i had a little side quest where i
was trying to do a new compiler with
just the ast
um because it actually isn't that hard
but then i realized that there was
some other features in roll up that i
wanted to use that we're not going to be
able to replicate uh
at just the ast so i actually figured
out um
a way that we can leverage some of the
caching and performance stuff
that uh that roll-up does and
not hit some of the bottlenecks
everything before so that's actually
implemented and it's it's even faster
than it was before i was uh using all
those workers
so that's really cool to see and uh
that's where i'm at right
yeah um so
my two main things uh
uh the the hampt spent most of my week
in the go hemp
code um making changes and tests and
docs
and um that stuff's in um
pull requests in that repo uh
sort of handed that off to
um far coin people
um it looks like there's just a matter
of bandwidth for the other folks to
deal with that um
well it looks like steven's been merging
some things today so that's good
um and
then uh just back to some javascript
work just to
try and get some closure on some other
things but um
not nothing else to report other than
that's really wasn't that eventful
i did have uh eric along for the ride
for some of the hamp
stuff he was doing some benchmarks and
trying to
figure out how the flush semantics
exactly worked and what they actually
benefited
and um he got some good docs in for that
um but yeah that's it for me really
all right um does anyone else want to
give any updates or
if not then we can also open for
discussions if anyone has
anything to talk about or discuss
it looks like it's been a quite a quite
quiet week for ipld
i mean a lot actually happened last week
and a lot of work got done is just that
there's not a lot of like open
questions related to it it was all just
like things that needed to happen
it happened um
can we talk a little bit more about how
you guys
working at michael consumes spoke to
each other already how do you envision
the wasn't stuff
to be implemented for read only
things this is basically going to be a
callback for the
link loader or it's going to be more um
give the awesome a stream and get back
blocks or something else
no it's going to be definitely
transactional with like
all of the block data at once um so
it'll just be you know
here's a block give me the decoded
version of that or
more accurately what it may be uh is
like here is block data in in x format
give me back dig c
bar um because you have to
like there's going to be some kind of
binary civilization anyway and that's
the only one that we know that everybody
already has
and it supports the whole data model so
um that may be what it does but
some of that detail is still being
worked out but it definitely doesn't
need to work with a stream
because it's always working with a whole
block at a time
right so basically you're going to incur
the penalty of
uh into awesome lantern out on
every link yeah it's not intended to be
the fastest thing in the world like
you know if you want to really perform a
codec like you would ship with a
with a native version i would imagine um
this is mainly like
you want to be able to read data that
you did not ship with the codec
iv and so it may just be a little bit
you know slower especially if we end up
encoding it in the seaboard because then
you're literally going to
you're going to pass it off to wasm get
it decoded and then literally decoded
again as taxi board so
right right so you can pull the pull the
links out and uh
the mechanism to get a
trusted version of a reader or whatever
would be
how like like let's say you're a miner
and you'll get a deal
and what happens next so we would
publish
the cid for a dag and that dag would
associate
the codec identifiers with
the wasm binaries
and so you would you would look up in
that dag like hey
which one of these and then you would
pull it out and then you have like
um a call that is like a you know a
share nothing called co-author where you
just say
here's a block of data and some memory
go decode this for me
you know folker now that i think about
it i think peter's right we should
put um in addition to just deserializing
the entire structure
we should have um a way for you to
return
just cds back
um and come up with some kind of
serialization for just the ids because
then if you're if you're just parsing
all the links out in order to do the
graph traversal that would work
yeah but the problem is you would need
to so and when we just
cutting it i thought about the same but
the problem is you still need
so you need to also return the path
because basically yeah you do pathing on
the
like and then put you departing to the
cid and so you also need to return the
path to the city
and then um just uh here's a whole block
give me back
all of the paths to links so the path
and the link
and then that's just an array of tuples
right so you just do a seabor array of
tuples back
yeah but it'd be a different
it'd be a different call than decode
basically right exactly yeah it
will be like it will so basically the
probably the first version will just
return everything
and then you can add things like pathing
which is like
this is the most basic version of
pathing i guess so you get bigger links
and then you can add new whatever like
but i guess yeah so yeah we should we
should start working on designing the
data structure but the data structure
should basically be like
um like a struct for the
codec and then for each method
right for each one of these methods you
would just have a separate wasm entry
point right
yeah it's just like a function called
basically so
yeah like you add the code you totally
call cid's or you call it yeah
traverse yeah decode links
and each one is just like a separate one
binary yeah
and you need to maintain
sorry and you need to maintain the path
or the breath cramp whatever you want to
call it
in order to support a specialized
selector
only or for something additional
no i don't i don't know where the depth
part came from but
um no no not the depth but the actual
path
like why do you need to maintain that
part
um well no often you need to know the
path of the links and when you traverse
the block to get the links you have the
paths anyway so like all of our apis
that just give you all the links
in a block give you the path as well
because there's no reason no
yeah but in this case there is a reason
not to
because why because
uh then the this
the design of this entire thing becomes
even simpler because you literally do
not even need to
think about like how to decode a map in
this codec or anything like this you
literally just
need to in c for example look for
anything that is tagged 42
and you don't care what structure it is
you just need to you just
[Laughter]
depending on the predictor so let's say
the selector selects
um something within your object
and you only use the ids you you can't
so from the selected perspective you
can't tell
if you're going to select this led or
not
yes this was literally how i asked the
question is this just for selectors or
you need it for
something else because the context in
which we need this entire thing
the selector is a select all anyway
no but not necessarily i mean you can
craft a selector that's specific to a
path
and then you would need to know it yes
within the context of file coin
it probably won't be the case that's
what i'm trying to say
i mean we have the whole selection
selector engine there you can actually
use it
in the retrieval market and we haven't
yet explored what people are gonna
do with that um and if you especially in
some of these
like potential partial graph cases like
we
we have thought about um like recursive
selective criteria
in paths and things like that so you you
would want it
i mean i'm not opposed to just having
two methods but
given that like we don't know of a codec
in which
we can easily parse out the links
without getting the path information
anyway
um like like all of our current codecs
that i know of
when you go and look at them to get all
the links in order to even
parse out the link you have had to
accumulate the path to the link already
so there's no reason not to return it i
think that like
theoretically there could be a block
format in the future that just
put all of the links in the header
without the paths to them
that's certainly possible but i'm just
not sure
if we should optimize this for that
i mean because it's just going to make
the dag way bigger because we're going
to end up having two methods
for every codec one for just the links
and one for the length of paths
no that that's fine i just want to make
sure that it's been considered
that okay for what you need it for you
don't actually need the path
at all yeah for one of the use cases but
we want to keep it flexible
um we did the same thing in the
javascript block api it returned to the
the paths as well
um
um oh one thing that i forgot to put in
the notes i should add it though is that
we did have the dag
jose cose call last week um and that
went really well actually
um things are a lot simpler than we'd
initially made them out to be
um yeah so the the sort of
top level of that was that um the actual
format of the data for deg jose and
kosei will be unchanged from the dag
jose and kosei spec
it will basically just look identical
but when you use
a dag jose or tag cose codec
that means that the thing you're signing
is a link
so the binary payload that you're
signing is should be interpreted as a
link and in our codex
we will want to you know add an
adjoining property to the payload
called link so that it is like in the
decoded data that you would traverse
through it
um i think we discussed there's also
going to be a versioned
cid so it implies at least version one
i think where we landed on that was that
we we said should
you should use this [ __ ] yeah i think we
have to work out the wording and i think
just to add that
to the uh i guess where would we dump
that documentation for that
um i believe that we have prs that are
open and started
for the specs for those um and they they
were
really complicated because they were
talking about like alternative schemas
and stuff like that but now they should
be a lot
simpler um so i think in the ipld specs
repo there should be like an open pr
for the day jose cosey specs
um and there that's where we want to say
that garbage there to actually make sure
we work on that i think the other thing
that i was working on which is
tangential but is um
abnf notation for ipld
so abnf is like all of the the syntax
for a fully qualified url and so
and this has to do i i mentioned it
briefly to dietrich um
because i was um working on getting the
ipfs colon
scheme name registered and i picked i
dropped the ball
mostly because i was the full qualified
like path queried fragment
for like has to be flushed out and and
the current
draft of the spec doesn't actually spell
that out but i think i was waiting to do
this for ipld until actually get like
things like selectors
in that like a full path query fragment
uh interpretation and i think um
i'm curious what your thoughts are
because it's certainly like like the for
instance like the whole selectors
is like this big graph paragraph of
stuff
that could certainly be shortened and be
basically like a
a c id that represents the selector
right we've also talked about the
difference between a selector and a
selector query and that may be a
slightly different schema
and we would also embed that
in the interest of getting something
usable sooner
we could consider just doing instead of
ipld colon just cid colon
knockback and then there's no selectors
no nothing it's it's only a url scheme
to point at cds
that might be useful in the interim
because i don't i don't know when we're
going to figure out
the pathing and selector stuff it's like
every time we
we open that box it the bottom of it
looks deeper than it was before
um and so um i mean even like pathing we
don't
have a stable spec for yet and and you
know peters actually doesn't work on it
um
and we're like still not it didn't go
well yeah
yeah it's it's it's like it's a really
tough problem
um i think honestly
some of the stuff that you're talking
about um selected in selectors
might actually fix some of these
problems for us like we may
like it may actually be a lot easier to
just say you know what uh
you need to just encode your selector as
an i feel the object and then reference
it by cid
rather than trying to do you know paths
as selection criteria
um because it's just too complicated um
that may be like the reasonable solution
yeah and i think i like that and i
talked to
eric about that back in like berlin that
was a while ago
oh yeah yeah yeah i mean we're also
looking at it in terms of the um
we would like to get to the point where
a car file like like a future version of
the car file format
um included a selector in the header
and so that selector would basically be
the selection criteria that created the
car file so even when it's an incomplete
graph you always have a complete
selector over it
um and that would be a selector query in
that case for sure
i'm working on some of the
interoperability with let's say
did methods that use json ld and i want
to be able to
translate between uh seabor dagsebor
to back to json native.json and
represent
this and know that let's say the path
and the the
yeah yeah the um the link slash link and
json
or tag 42 and cbor is represented as
basically
as a fully qualified uri in which case
would be conforming with the
specification
right right no man
yeah if you need the padding that's
always a bit more difficult
um yeah i don't really need the padding
although that
would be helpful because then um there
is
there's so much robustness that actually
you can you can do especially for
me in the the did method that i did ipld
the anchoring into specific blockchains
is actually would be
important because i'm blockchain
agnostic to
when doing a proof signing and an
anchoring of these proofs into
proof of existence
i do wonder if we're we're missing just
like a simpler path spec
um because we have the data model and if
we're willing to say that pads are just
only data model and we're not going to
touch them beyond that and
at that point you're like in selectors
um we should just be able to borrow
the earl path rules and say that when
you fall outside of this like
i'm sorry we can't pass into your data
because we have i mean we have the data
model
it specifies like how all of the
different
potential key values would work um
i don't think that we have a great
system right now for differentiating
between integers
and strings that's the only thing that i
feel uncomfortable about
um yeah and the current path is
basically json pointers i think so
you're basically like indexing into an a
specific item in the array yeah
yep yep um yeah i like if we if we had a
solution to that i'd be
comfortable putting out a regular spec
that was only
on the data model because we we also say
that string
um map keys need to be utf-8 i think
in the in the data model spec as well so
yeah and that's the big
the deal breaker for me because cbor i
mentioned it allows for
integers as keys and that's the the
benefit of cbore
and so i think yeah but we don't support
it in the in
indexing we literally literally block it
in dixie
exactly yeah and i mirrored that for the
did specification to basically
mirrored that because i don't want it to
be basically ipld but
to be backwards compatible or basically
allow for
a full c bore on top of
ipld in which case the cid points to
dag a seaport object in which case you
just use the multi codec that is
cbor which case everything works fine
right it's just it's a translation
between this big iple
object and stuff i need to have a
to in order for people to know it's
either the the
mime type is application cbor plus ipld
or it's in json but the json starts with
ipld colon slash slash
oh interesting i don't even know if
actually the slash slack because it's
not hierarchical i'm sorry
it is hierarchical because it's a dag
but it's not authoritative
and so it this this
rules have to say as far as uh the
syntax required for
a fully qualified uri which happens to
be
ipld objects right right
i mean so data model also says map keys
have to be strings
so if we're just purely data model then
we can just differentiate
we still need syntax in the path to
differentiate
items in an array from item for also an
array from
string keys in a map in order to
differentiate a string
zero from um an opposite zero
yeah peter so uh specifically on this
part
at least in ghost selector
implementation it is implemented
as a kind of union on the
resolver side so if it is an array it
treats it as an offset if it is
a map it treats it as a key with the
string value
of oh really three four five yes
well that's smart how would i like that
no no there is no catch there but there
is a catch in the maps
strings should be utf-8 text they're not
must be and it actually has
tests for byte strings now in
stuff that's what the spec says i'm
looking at right now
we should change the spec because the
data model spec says that they have to
be no no no that the data model expects
us that
it doesn't say what it says should
[Laughter]
okay we need to change that we we don't
we don't have a representation in
several languages for that so
um it's like the only way that we can
ensure
like cross-language competitors um no no
just so it's no that's a really that's a
really good point though where like you
can actually just
define the behavior on the data
rather than on the interpretation of the
path
in the earl okay and if you try to do an
array with a string
that's not that doesn't just fail
exactly
yeah and if you're trying to do it on
the map it would just convert it
and then that would also force people to
never be able to use the ninja map keys
um yeah
um okay yeah let's let's get that spec
in then for the
for data model padding and then we can
leverage the data mob having for
any kind of uri spec that we would ever
need um
that sounds good to me and then you know
for
for more advanced stuff we can figure
out selectors later like this is just
only data model
cool okay awesome good chat
anything else
cool all right yeah then
um yeah it's the end of the meeting and
we meet again
and next week so see you all then
bye
rod do you want to meet earlier do you
want to
cool